docs/plan.md, before:

This is the plan that I will follow to develop Raven:

## Phase 1: first version of Raven
Following [the roadmap](https://git.ddoichita.dev/nykenik24/raven#roadmap) located in `README.md`, the first version of Raven focuses purely on:
- **Iteration**: iterating over and over and over until design is as good as it can get + has been demonstrated to be overall **good** and the compiler is fast and battle-tested.
- **Optimization**: 1) write something until it's finished 2) optimize 3) test, benchmark 4) repeat from step 2.

---
## Phase 2: further improvments
> **Not everything here is confirmed. Don't get excited, as I am not sure if everything here will be totally true. Although I CAN promise the standard library and maybe some of the tooling, like the LSP.**

After version 1 Raven will basically be done, although there will still be things to do:
- **Standard library**: the earliest after-v1 versions will be dedicated solely to standard library. 
I want to make Raven a batteries-included language (without too much bloat, I don't want to make Raven programs a RAM killer, specially with today's RAM prices cough cough <small>AI</small>. cough).
- **Tooling**: Raven obviously needs more than just the compiler for users to love it, because who would write an application in 2026 without LSP (Language Server Protocol, basically live errors, warnings and autocompletion), proper syntax highlighting and debugging/REPL tools? 
Some people (example: me), yes, but it's necessary that I do at least LSP.
- **Configuring**: something that I **REALLY** want to implement is configuration. Not any configuration, but the kind of one that allows you to modify/disable the entire standard library, add additional behavior 
(in the form of intermediate behavior, limited to add behavior before the last phase [compilation], where you get the optimized AST), among other useful things. Even if I want to implement this, it's one of those things that **I don't guarantee**.
- **Modules, dependencies**: as any mature language, I have planned adding a package system and module-based projects to Raven. 
What I mean exactly with a package system is the ability to download packages directly from the internet with a CLI, which can then be used inside the project; the auxiliary name is Aviary, but it will be confirmed when I get there. 
Module-based projects is basically a change in the structure of projects, with "modules" being present, and each module containing members of various files instead of each file being it's own module with it's own members. 
- **Further optimization and enhancements**: Phase 1 *seems* enough to settle Raven's design, until you notice that the only way Raven is ever going to be used seriously is if it has already developed a community (even if small) that can give their honest feedback to improve Raven. 
A lot of languages are currently built by their community (Rust, Zig, Python...), once there is a community the developer(s) are basically forced to resolve as many issues and PRs (Pull Requests) as possible. 
I am not saying that I expect a community forming around Raven (although I would love that, not gonna lie).

---
## Phase 3: the stage 2 compiler
Once I consider Raven is ready to be ported to itself like other mature languages, I will do exactly that.

For those that didn't understand, instead of writing new versions of Raven in C, I write them in Raven itself, and then compile that code with the already well-established C-written compiler.
Then, posterior versions of Raven are compiled with the stage-2 compiler (the one written in Raven), meaning that Raven compiles itself (so Raven = Ouroboros).

Commit message:

docs: some more changes to phase 2 in plan.md

docs/plan.md, after:

This is the plan that I will follow to develop Raven:

## Phase 1: first version of Raven
Following [the roadmap](https://git.ddoichita.dev/nykenik24/raven#roadmap) located in `README.md`, the first version of Raven focuses purely on:
- **Iteration**: iterating over and over and over until design is as good as it can get + has been demonstrated to be overall **good** and the compiler is fast and battle-tested.
- **Optimization**: 1) write something until it's finished 2) optimize 3) test, benchmark 4) repeat from step 2.

---
## Phase 2: further improvments
Phase 2 consists of all versions after v1.0 and before phase 3's self-hosting. 
It's mostly focused on adding to the phase 1's compiler and trying to make Raven be more "professional" (double quotes mean Raven will not be SaaS startup garbage, Raven is always FOSS ♥) and beginner-friendly, with things less focused on the internals.

These are things that are **guaranteed** in phase 2:
- **A website**, even if it's a static page hosted in GitHub pages, to showcase Raven's features, serve documentation and specification, post updates/changelogs and provide binaries, the compressed source, etc.
- **Standard library**: the earliest after-v1 versions will be dedicated solely to standard library. 
I want to make Raven a batteries-included language (without too much bloat, I don't want to make Raven programs a RAM killer, specially with today's RAM prices cough cough <small>AI</small>. cough).
- **Some promoting**, nothing too excesive or extreme such as massively posting about Raven in public forums (=Reddit), but I will try to get some audience, even if just a small community, to at least know that all the work was worth it.

> **Not everything here is confirmed. Don't get excited, as I am not sure if everything here will be totally true. From the things below, I will prioritize tooling.**

After version 1 Raven will basically be done, although there will still be things to do:
<!--I want to expand on these, so I might use Header 3s instead of an unordered list and give a lot more information.-->
- **Tooling**: Raven obviously needs more than just the compiler for users to love it, because who would write an application in 2026 without LSP (Language Server Protocol, basically live errors, warnings and autocompletion), proper syntax highlighting and debugging/REPL tools? 
Some people (example: me), yes, but it's necessary that I do at least LSP.
- **Configuring**: something that I **REALLY** want to implement is configuration. Not any configuration, but the kind of one that allows you to modify/disable the entire standard library, add additional behavior 
(in the form of intermediate behavior, limited to add behavior before the last phase [compilation], where you get the optimized AST), among other useful things. Even if I want to implement this, it's one of those things that **I don't guarantee**.
- **Modules, dependencies**: as any mature language, I have planned adding a package system and module-based projects to Raven. 
What I mean exactly with a package system is the ability to download packages directly from the internet with a CLI, which can then be used inside the project; the auxiliary name is Aviary, but it will be confirmed when I get there. 
Module-based projects is basically a change in the structure of projects, with "modules" being present, and each module containing members of various files instead of each file being it's own module with it's own members. 
- **Further optimization and enhancements**: Phase 1 *seems* enough to settle Raven's design, until you notice that the only way Raven is ever going to be used seriously is if it has already developed a community (even if small) that can give their honest feedback to improve Raven. 
A lot of languages are currently built by their community (Rust, Zig, Python...), once there is a community the developer(s) are basically forced to resolve as many issues and PRs (Pull Requests) as possible. 
I am not saying that I expect a community forming around Raven (although I would love that, not gonna lie).


---
## Phase 3: the stage 2 compiler
Once I consider Raven is ready to be ported to itself like other mature languages, I will do exactly that.

For those that didn't understand, instead of writing new versions of Raven in C, I write them in Raven itself, and then compile that code with the already well-established C-written compiler.
Then, posterior versions of Raven are compiled with the stage-2 compiler (the one written in Raven), meaning that Raven compiles itself (so Raven = Ouroboros).
